bootcamps/advancedDeveloperBootcamp/README.md, before:

Note:

1. Start learning course on 2020/07/23
1. Finished on
1. As I just finished a course about HTML and CSS during June and July 2020, I will start the CSS session later to review the techniques and skills of HTML and CSS.

# Structure

1. CSS Animation: Transforms and Transitions
1. CSS Animation: Keyframes
1. Advanced CSS: Layout with Flexbox
1. Project: Building A Startup Site
1. Async Foundations
1. AJAX Part 1: XHR and Fetch
1. AJAX Part 2: jQuery and Axios
1. Testing with Jasmine
1. Advanced Array Methods
1. Closures and the Keyword 'this'
1. Object Oriented Programming with JavaScript
1. Creating JSON API's with Node and Mongo
1. Codealong: Single Page Todo List with Express, Mongo, and jQuery
1. ES2015 Part 1
1. ES2015 Project - Guess the Password
1. ES2015 Part 2
1. ES2016 and ES2017
1. D3 and the DOM
1. Data Joins and Update Patterns in D3
1. SVG and D3
1. D3 Odds and Ends, and Advanced Graph Types
1. Project: Building a Data Dashboard with D3
1. Introduction to React and JSX
1. Create React App and Props
1. State
1. The Virtual DOM, Events, and Forms
1. Component Lifecycle Methods
1. Building A Full-stack App with React
1. React Router
1. Redux Introduction
1. In Depth Redux Code Walkthrough
1. Warbler Introduction and Backend Part 1
1. Warbler Backend Part 2
1. Warbler Frontend Part 1
1. Warbler Frontend Part 2

# Async Foundations

### Callback Functions

1. Objectives
   1. Define callback functions
   1. Define higher order functios
   1. Use a callback function to make the code more general
   1. Create callbacks using anonymous functions
1. A "**callback function**" is a function that is passed into another function as a parameter then invoked by that other function.
1. A "**higher order function**" is a function that accept a callback as a parameter. 
   ```js
   function callback() {
     console.log("Coming from callback");
   }

   function higherOrder(fn) {
     console.log("About to call callback");
     fn();
     console.log("Callback has been invoked");
   }

   higherOrder(callback);
   ```
1. What are callbacks used for? 
    1. Advanced Array methods
    1. Browser events 
    1. AJAX Requests
    1. React Development 

### Codealong: forEach
1. Objectives 
    1. Describe and use the forEach function
    1. Implement the forEach function
1. `.forEach` method is define as an `Array` method (function on `Array` object) as the followings.
    ```js 
    function forEach(array, callback) {
        //To be implemented
    }

    function callback(curElement, currentIndex, array) {
        // Implemented by the caller of forEach 
    }
    ```
1. Define our own `forEach()` function 
    ```js 
    function forEach(array, callback) {
        for (let i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
            callback(array[i], i, array);
        }
    }
    ```

### findIndex 
1. Objectives
    1. Describe and use the `.findIndex()` method
    1. Implement `.findIndex()` in practice
1. `.findIndex()` returns the index of the first element in the `Array` for which the callback returns a truthy value. `-1` is returned if the callback never returns a truthy value. `.find()`, `.findIndex()`, and `.filter()` use similar syntax to find either an element that fits the filter or the position of which in an `Array`. 
    ```js 
    function findIndex(array, callback) {
        // finIndex code to be implemented 
    }

    function callback(curElement, curIndex, array) {
        // callback implemented by caller of function
    }
    ```
1. A common mistake developers made in the callback function is forget to `return` the result from the callback function. We try to create the `.findIndex()` method as a function by our own. 
    ```js 
    function findIndex(arr, callback) {
        for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
            if(callback(arr[i], i, arr)){
                return i;
            }
        }
        return -1; 
    }
    ```

### The Stack and The Heap
1. Objectives
    1. Describe what a "stack" is 
    1. Describe stack frame
    1. Describe the Heap 
1. "**stack**" is an ordered data structure, keeps track of function invocations, is part of the JavaScript runtime (which we don't access directly). 
    1. Whenever a function is invoked, the details of the invocation (execution context) are saved on the top of the stack (pushed to the top).
    1. Whenever a function returns, the information about the invocation is taken off the top of the stack (popped off of the top).
    1. In summary, stack is an ordered set of stack frames. Most recently invoked function is on the top of the stack. The bottom of the stack is the first function invoekd. The stack is processed from the top to bottom. 
1. "**Heap**" is an area in memory where the data is stored. 

### setTimeout and setInterval
1. Objectives - Use `setTimeout()` and `setInterval()
1. `setTimeout()` is a function that asynchronously invokes a callback after a delay of milliseconds.
    ```js
    let timerId = setTimeout(function () {
        console.log('This function runs in 30 seconds');
    }, 3000);

    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('Canceling the first setTimeout', timerId);
        clearTimeout(timerId);
    })
    ```
1. `setInterval()` is a function that continually invokes a callback after every x milliseconds, where x is provided to `setInterval()`
    ```js 
    let num = 0;
    let intervalId = setInterval(function () {
        num++;
        console.log(num);
        if (num === 20) {
            clearInterval(intervalId);
        }
    }, 200);
    ```

### The Event Loop and the Queue
1. Objectives 
    1. Define event loop and the queue
    1. Describe how the event loop and the queue work with the stack 
    1. Define JavaScript as a single threaded langugage
1. **Queue** is an ordered list of functions waiting to be placed on the stack. Functions in the queue are processed on a first in, first out basis (FIFO).
1. **Event Loop** is a functionality in JavaScript runtime that checks the queue when the stack is empty. If the stack is empty, the front of the queue is placed in the stack. 
1. JavaScript is single threaded, which means that code execution is linear. Code that is running cannot be interrupted by something else going on in the program. 

### Promise Basics
1. Objectives 
    1. Define a promise 
    1. Add a `.then()` callback to a promise 
    1. Add a `.catch()` callback to a promise 
    1. Wrap a setTimeout call in a promise 
1. **Promise** is an `Object` that represents a task that will be completed in the future. 
    ```js 
    let p1 = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            let randomInt = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10);
            resolve(randomInt);
        }, 4000)
    });

    p1.then(result => {
        console.log('Success', result);
    }).catch(error => {
        console.log('Error', error);
    })
    ```

### Promise Chaining
1. Objectives 
    1. Describe the disadvantages of using nested callbacks
    1. Return a promise from a `.then()` callback function
    1. Use a promise to make asynchronous code seem sequential 
1. Nest Async Callbacks. For example, we'd like to print number from 1 to 3 in an ascending order. 
1. Disadvantages of nested callbacks
    1. The code is hard to read
    1. Logic is difficult to reason about
    1. The code is not modular
    ```js 
    let counter = 0;
    setTimeout(() => {
        counter++;
        console.log('Counter: ', counter); // 1 
        setTimeout(() => {
            counter++;
            console.log('Counter: ', counter); // 2 
            setTimeout(() => {
                counter++;
                console.log('Counter: ', counter); // 3
            }, 3000);
        }, 2000);
    }, 1000)
    ```
1. We can use **Promise Chaining** to rewrite the callback chain above.
    ```js 
    let counter = 0;
    function incCounter() {
        counter++;
        console.log('Counter: ', counter);
    }

    function runLater(callback, timeInMs) {
        let p = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
            setTimeout(function () {
                let res = callback();
                resolve(res);
            }, timeInMs);
        });
        return p;
    }

    runLater(incCounter, 1000).then(function () {
        return runLater(incCounter, 2000);
    }).then(function () {
        return runLater(incCounter, 3000);
    }).then(function () {

    })
    ```
1. In practice, though it's useful to understand how promises work (resolve, reject), we will often use promises returned to us as values, such as retrievling data from database API. 


# AJAX Part 1: XHR and Fetch
### Intro to AJAX
1. 


# AJAX Part 2: jQuery and Axios


# Testing with Jasmine

Commit message:

update bootcamp learning note. Starting learning AJAX

bootcamps/advancedDeveloperBootcamp/README.md, after:

Note:

1. Start learning course on 2020/07/23
1. Finished on
1. As I just finished a course about HTML and CSS during June and July 2020, I will start the CSS session later to review the techniques and skills of HTML and CSS.

# Structure

1. CSS Animation: Transforms and Transitions
1. CSS Animation: Keyframes
1. Advanced CSS: Layout with Flexbox
1. Project: Building A Startup Site
1. Async Foundations
1. AJAX Part 1: XHR and Fetch
1. AJAX Part 2: jQuery and Axios
1. Testing with Jasmine
1. Advanced Array Methods
1. Closures and the Keyword 'this'
1. Object Oriented Programming with JavaScript
1. Creating JSON API's with Node and Mongo
1. Codealong: Single Page Todo List with Express, Mongo, and jQuery
1. ES2015 Part 1
1. ES2015 Project - Guess the Password
1. ES2015 Part 2
1. ES2016 and ES2017
1. D3 and the DOM
1. Data Joins and Update Patterns in D3
1. SVG and D3
1. D3 Odds and Ends, and Advanced Graph Types
1. Project: Building a Data Dashboard with D3
1. Introduction to React and JSX
1. Create React App and Props
1. State
1. The Virtual DOM, Events, and Forms
1. Component Lifecycle Methods
1. Building A Full-stack App with React
1. React Router
1. Redux Introduction
1. In Depth Redux Code Walkthrough
1. Warbler Introduction and Backend Part 1
1. Warbler Backend Part 2
1. Warbler Frontend Part 1
1. Warbler Frontend Part 2

# Async Foundations

### Callback Functions

1. Objectives
   1. Define callback functions
   1. Define higher order functios
   1. Use a callback function to make the code more general
   1. Create callbacks using anonymous functions
1. A "**callback function**" is a function that is passed into another function as a parameter then invoked by that other function.
1. A "**higher order function**" is a function that accept a callback as a parameter. 
   ```js
   function callback() {
     console.log("Coming from callback");
   }

   function higherOrder(fn) {
     console.log("About to call callback");
     fn();
     console.log("Callback has been invoked");
   }

   higherOrder(callback);
   ```
1. What are callbacks used for? 
    1. Advanced Array methods
    1. Browser events 
    1. AJAX Requests
    1. React Development 

### Codealong: forEach
1. Objectives 
    1. Describe and use the forEach function
    1. Implement the forEach function
1. `.forEach` method is define as an `Array` method (function on `Array` object) as the followings.
    ```js 
    function forEach(array, callback) {
        //To be implemented
    }

    function callback(curElement, currentIndex, array) {
        // Implemented by the caller of forEach 
    }
    ```
1. Define our own `forEach()` function 
    ```js 
    function forEach(array, callback) {
        for (let i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
            callback(array[i], i, array);
        }
    }
    ```

### findIndex 
1. Objectives
    1. Describe and use the `.findIndex()` method
    1. Implement `.findIndex()` in practice
1. `.findIndex()` returns the index of the first element in the `Array` for which the callback returns a truthy value. `-1` is returned if the callback never returns a truthy value. `.find()`, `.findIndex()`, and `.filter()` use similar syntax to find either an element that fits the filter or the position of which in an `Array`. 
    ```js 
    function findIndex(array, callback) {
        // finIndex code to be implemented 
    }

    function callback(curElement, curIndex, array) {
        // callback implemented by caller of function
    }
    ```
1. A common mistake developers made in the callback function is forget to `return` the result from the callback function. We try to create the `.findIndex()` method as a function by our own. 
    ```js 
    function findIndex(arr, callback) {
        for (let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
            if(callback(arr[i], i, arr)){
                return i;
            }
        }
        return -1; 
    }
    ```

### The Stack and The Heap
1. Objectives
    1. Describe what a "stack" is 
    1. Describe stack frame
    1. Describe the Heap 
1. "**stack**" is an ordered data structure, keeps track of function invocations, is part of the JavaScript runtime (which we don't access directly). 
    1. Whenever a function is invoked, the details of the invocation (execution context) are saved on the top of the stack (pushed to the top).
    1. Whenever a function returns, the information about the invocation is taken off the top of the stack (popped off of the top).
    1. In summary, stack is an ordered set of stack frames. Most recently invoked function is on the top of the stack. The bottom of the stack is the first function invoekd. The stack is processed from the top to bottom. 
1. "**Heap**" is an area in memory where the data is stored. 

### setTimeout and setInterval
1. Objectives - Use `setTimeout()` and `setInterval()
1. `setTimeout()` is a function that asynchronously invokes a callback after a delay of milliseconds.
    ```js
    let timerId = setTimeout(function () {
        console.log('This function runs in 30 seconds');
    }, 3000);

    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('Canceling the first setTimeout', timerId);
        clearTimeout(timerId);
    })
    ```
1. `setInterval()` is a function that continually invokes a callback after every x milliseconds, where x is provided to `setInterval()`
    ```js 
    let num = 0;
    let intervalId = setInterval(function () {
        num++;
        console.log(num);
        if (num === 20) {
            clearInterval(intervalId);
        }
    }, 200);
    ```

### The Event Loop and the Queue
1. Objectives 
    1. Define event loop and the queue
    1. Describe how the event loop and the queue work with the stack 
    1. Define JavaScript as a single threaded langugage
1. **Queue** is an ordered list of functions waiting to be placed on the stack. Functions in the queue are processed on a first in, first out basis (FIFO).
1. **Event Loop** is a functionality in JavaScript runtime that checks the queue when the stack is empty. If the stack is empty, the front of the queue is placed in the stack. 
1. JavaScript is single threaded, which means that code execution is linear. Code that is running cannot be interrupted by something else going on in the program. 

### Promise Basics
1. Objectives 
    1. Define a promise 
    1. Add a `.then()` callback to a promise 
    1. Add a `.catch()` callback to a promise 
    1. Wrap a setTimeout call in a promise 
1. **Promise** is an `Object` that represents a task that will be completed in the future. 
    ```js 
    let p1 = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            let randomInt = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10);
            resolve(randomInt);
        }, 4000)
    });

    p1.then(result => {
        console.log('Success', result);
    }).catch(error => {
        console.log('Error', error);
    })
    ```

### Promise Chaining
1. Objectives 
    1. Describe the disadvantages of using nested callbacks
    1. Return a promise from a `.then()` callback function
    1. Use a promise to make asynchronous code seem sequential 
1. Nest Async Callbacks. For example, we'd like to print number from 1 to 3 in an ascending order. 
1. Disadvantages of nested callbacks
    1. The code is hard to read
    1. Logic is difficult to reason about
    1. The code is not modular
    ```js 
    let counter = 0;
    setTimeout(() => {
        counter++;
        console.log('Counter: ', counter); // 1 
        setTimeout(() => {
            counter++;
            console.log('Counter: ', counter); // 2 
            setTimeout(() => {
                counter++;
                console.log('Counter: ', counter); // 3
            }, 3000);
        }, 2000);
    }, 1000)
    ```
1. We can use **Promise Chaining** to rewrite the callback chain above.
    ```js 
    let counter = 0;
    function incCounter() {
        counter++;
        console.log('Counter: ', counter);
    }

    function runLater(callback, timeInMs) {
        let p = new Promise(function (resolve, reject) {
            setTimeout(function () {
                let res = callback();
                resolve(res);
            }, timeInMs);
        });
        return p;
    }

    runLater(incCounter, 1000).then(function () {
        return runLater(incCounter, 2000);
    }).then(function () {
        return runLater(incCounter, 3000);
    }).then(function () {

    })
    ```
1. In practice, though it's useful to understand how promises work (resolve, reject), we will often use promises returned to us as values, such as retrievling data from database API. 


# AJAX Part 1: XHR and Fetch
### Intro to AJAX
1. AJAX stands for `Asynchronous` `JavaScript` and `XML`. 
1. AJAX is not a library, not a framework, and not a technology. 
1. AJAX is an approach and concept. Back in 2005, people use the followings to build websites. From the developers at the time, they noticed that all these pieces are here for us to make web apps that can update without refreshing. 
    1. HTML
    1. CSS
    1. JavaScript
    1. The DOM
    1. XMLHTTP Requests
1. With AJAX, websites can send and request data from a server in the background without disturbing the current page. This concept of website building introduces mordern single page apps. 
1. We can use the following tools (and more) to make requests with JavaScript 
    1. XMLHTTP request
    1. The `fetch` API
    1. 3rd Praty Libraries: jQuery, Axios, etc. 

### What's the deal with JSON and XML
1. Both JSON and XML are data formats 

# AJAX Part 2: jQuery and Axios


# Testing with Jasmine
