bootcamps/webDevelopmentMasterclass/README.md, before:

Start: 2020/08/20
End: 

Note: I started this course is mainly for learning PHP with related stacks of technology during the time. I will learn the other sections if required. 


1. [How the Internet Works](#How-the-Internet-Works)
1. [The Web Development Process](#The-Web-Development-Process)
1. [Planning a Website](#Planning-a-Website)
1. [Web Hosting and System Requirements](#Web-Hosting-and-System-Requirements)
1. [Domain Names](#Domain-Names)
1. [Testing Environment](#Testing-Environment)
1. [Production Environment](#Production-Environment)
1. [FTP Setup](#FTP-Setup)
1. [HTML Development](#HTML-Development)
1. [CSS Development](#css-development)
1. [Document Object Model (DOM)](#Document-Object-Model-(DOM))
1. [JavaScript Development](#JavaScript-Development)
1. [jQuery Library](#jQuery-Library)
1. [Bootstrap Framework](#Bootstrap-Framework)
1. [PHP Development](#PHP-Development)
1. [MySQL Database Integration](#MySQL-Database-Integration)
1. [XML | AJAX](#XML-|-AJAX)
1. [Development Project](#Development-Project)
1. [Google Apps for Works](#Google-Apps-for-Works)
1. [Bonues: SSL Certificates - How to Secure your Server](#Bonues:-SSL-Certificates---How-to-Secure-your-Server)

# How the Internet Works
# The Web Development Process
# Planning a Website
# Web Hosting and System Requirements
# Domain Names
# Testing Environment
# Production Environment
# FTP Setup
# HTML Development
# CSS Development
# Document Object Model (DOM)
# JavaScript Development
# jQuery Library
# Bootstrap Framework
# PHP Development
# MySQL Database Integration
# XML | AJAX
# Development Project
# Google Apps for Works
# Bonues: SSL Certificates - How to Secure your Server

Commit message:

check setting up testing server

bootcamps/webDevelopmentMasterclass/README.md, after:

Start: 2020/08/20
End: 

Note: I started this course is mainly for learning PHP with related stacks of technology during the time. I will learn the other sections if required. 


1. [How the Internet Works](#How-the-Internet-Works)
1. [The Web Development Process](#The-Web-Development-Process)
1. [Planning a Website](#Planning-a-Website)
1. [Web Hosting and System Requirements](#Web-Hosting-and-System-Requirements)
1. [Domain Names](#Domain-Names)
1. [Testing Environment](#Testing-Environment)
1. [Production Environment](#Production-Environment)
1. [FTP Setup](#FTP-Setup)
1. [HTML Development](#HTML-Development)
1. [CSS Development](#css-development)
1. [Document Object Model (DOM)](#Document-Object-Model-(DOM))
1. [JavaScript Development](#JavaScript-Development)
1. [jQuery Library](#jQuery-Library)
1. [Bootstrap Framework](#Bootstrap-Framework)
1. [PHP Development](#PHP-Development)
1. [MySQL Database Integration](#MySQL-Database-Integration)
1. [XML | AJAX](#XML-|-AJAX)
1. [Development Project](#Development-Project)
1. [Google Apps for Works](#Google-Apps-for-Works)
1. [Bonues: SSL Certificates - How to Secure your Server](#Bonues:-SSL-Certificates---How-to-Secure-your-Server)

# How the Internet Works
# The Web Development Process
# Planning a Website
# Web Hosting and System Requirements
# Domain Names

# Testing Environment
### Introduction to Testing Servers
1. A testing server allows us to test web application locally rather than uploading to live production server.
1. The testing server is important because any issue can be resolved without causing disruptions on the live server. 
1. PHP and MySQL require a testing server to function
1. Client side languages do not require a testing server (HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript)
1. Pre-Packaged Solutions: WAMP (Windows) MAMP (MAC). 

### Installing WampServer - WAMP

# Production Environment
# FTP Setup
# HTML Development
# CSS Development
# Document Object Model (DOM)
# JavaScript Development
# jQuery Library
# Bootstrap Framework

# PHP Development
### PHP Intoduction 
1. 

# MySQL Database Integration
# XML | AJAX
# Development Project
# Google Apps for Works
# Bonues: SSL Certificates - How to Secure your Server
