php/phpWithLaravelForBeginnersBecomeAMasterInLaravel/README.md, before:

PHP with Laravel for Beginners - Become a Master in Laravel
Start: 2020/09/22
End: 

1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Routes](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Routes)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Controllers](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Controllers)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Views](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Views)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Laravel Blade Templating Engine](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Laravel-Blade-Templating-Engine)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Laravel Migration](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Laravel-Migration)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Raw SQL Queries](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Raw-SQL-Queries)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent/ORM](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Eloquent/ORM)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent Relationship](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Eloquent-Relationship)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Tinker](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Tinker)
1. [Database - Eloquent One to One Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-One-to-One-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent One to Many Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-One-to-Many-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent Many to Many Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-Many-to-Many-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-Polymorphic-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Many to Many Relationship](#Database---Eloquent-Polymorphic-Many-to-Many-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Forms and Validation](#Forms-and-Validation)
1. [Forms - Package and Validation](#Forms---Package-and-Validation)
1. [Database - Some More Model Manipulation](#Database---Some-More-Model-Manipulation)
1. [Forms - Uploading Files](#Forms---Uploading-Files)
1. [Forms - Login](#Forms---Login)
1. [Middleware - Security/Protection](#Middleware---Security/Protection)
1. [Laravel Sessions](#Laravel-Sessions)
1. [Laravel - Sending Email/API](#Laravel---Sending-Email/API)
1. [Git and Github - Version Control](#Git-and-Github---Version-Control)
1. [New - Laravel 7 - Front-End](#New---Laravel-7---Front-End)
1. [Laravel Data Seeding](#Laravel-Data-Seeding)
1. [New - Laravel Components](#New---Laravel-Components)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7](#New-Application---Laravel-7)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - Roles and Permissions - Migrations & Relationships](#New-Application---Laravel-7---Roles-and-Permissions---Migrations-&-Relationships)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - Admin Users](#New-Application---Laravel-7---Admin-Users)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - User Profile Roles](#New-Application---Laravel-7---User-Profile-Roles)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - Permissions & Roles - CRUD](#New-Application---Laravel-7---Permissions-&-Roles---CRUD)
1. [Application - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Posts - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Posts---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Categories - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Categories---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Media - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Media---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Comments - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Comments---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Extra Features - Legacy Version 5.2](#Extra-Features---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.3](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.3)
1. [Extra Feature - WYSIWYG and File Management Installation](#Extra-Feature---WYSIWYG-and-File-Management-Installation)
1. [Extra Feature - Disqus Comment System](#Extra-Feature---Disqus-Comment-System)
1. [Extra Feature - Bulk Media Delete](#Extra-Feature---Bulk-Media-Delete)
1. [Extra Feature: Deploying Our App to a Shared Hosting Account](#Extra-Feature:-Deploying-Our-App-to-a-Shared-Hosting-Account)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.4](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.4)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.5](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.5)
1. [Extra - Adjustments And More Features](#Extra---Adjustments-And-More-Features)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.6](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.6)
1. [Upgrade from 5.6 to 5.7 & 5.7 to 5.8](#Upgrade-from-5.6-to-5.7-&-5.7-to-5.8)
1. [Upgrade from 5.8 to 6.0](#Upgrade-from-5.8-to-6.0)

# Windows - Local Environment Setup
1. Several apps and programs are installed
    1. XAMPP
    1. Git
    1. VSCode or PHPStorm (form Adobe) as code editor
    1. Composer
    1. Node.js

# MAC - Local Environment Setup
1. This part is skipped

# Laravel Fundamentals - Routes
# Laravel Fundamentals - Controllers
# Laravel Fundamentals - Views
# Laravel Fundamentals - Laravel Blade Templating Engine
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Laravel Migration
# Laravel Fundamentals - Raw SQL Queries
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent/ORM
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent Relationship
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Tinker
# Database - Eloquent One to One Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent One to Many Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent Many to Many Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Many to Many Relationship CRUD
# Forms and Validation
# Forms - Package and Validation
# Database - Some More Model Manipulation
# Forms - Uploading Files
# Forms - Login
# Middleware - Security/Protection
# Laravel Sessions
# Laravel - Sending Email/API
# Git and Github - Version Control
# New - Laravel 7 - Front-End
# Laravel Data Seeding
# New - Laravel Components
# New Application - Laravel 7
# New Application - Laravel 7 - Roles and Permissions - Migrations & Relationships
# New Application - Laravel 7 - Admin Users
# New Application - Laravel 7 - User Profile Roles
# New Application - Laravel 7 - Permissions & Roles - CRUD
# Application - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Posts - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Categories - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Media - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Comments - Legacy Version 5.2
# Extra Features - Legacy Version 5.2
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.3
# Extra Feature - WYSIWYG and File Management Installation
# Extra Feature - Disqus Comment System
# Extra Feature - Bulk Media Delete
# Extra Feature: Deploying Our App to a Shared Hosting Account
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.4
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.5
# Extra - Adjustments And More Features
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.6
# Upgrade from 5.6 to 5.7 & 5.7 to 5.8
# Upgrade from 5.8 to 6.0

Commit message:

update PHP learning note. Learning setting up and installing Laravel

php/phpWithLaravelForBeginnersBecomeAMasterInLaravel/README.md, after:

PHP with Laravel for Beginners - Become a Master in Laravel
Start: 2020/09/22
End: 

1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Routes](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Routes)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Controllers](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Controllers)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Views](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Views)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Laravel Blade Templating Engine](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Laravel-Blade-Templating-Engine)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Laravel Migration](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Laravel-Migration)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Raw SQL Queries](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Raw-SQL-Queries)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent/ORM](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Eloquent/ORM)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent Relationship](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Eloquent-Relationship)
1. [Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Tinker](#Laravel-Fundamentals---Database---Tinker)
1. [Database - Eloquent One to One Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-One-to-One-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent One to Many Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-One-to-Many-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent Many to Many Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-Many-to-Many-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Relationship CRUD](#Database---Eloquent-Polymorphic-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Many to Many Relationship](#Database---Eloquent-Polymorphic-Many-to-Many-Relationship-CRUD)
1. [Forms and Validation](#Forms-and-Validation)
1. [Forms - Package and Validation](#Forms---Package-and-Validation)
1. [Database - Some More Model Manipulation](#Database---Some-More-Model-Manipulation)
1. [Forms - Uploading Files](#Forms---Uploading-Files)
1. [Forms - Login](#Forms---Login)
1. [Middleware - Security/Protection](#Middleware---Security/Protection)
1. [Laravel Sessions](#Laravel-Sessions)
1. [Laravel - Sending Email/API](#Laravel---Sending-Email/API)
1. [Git and Github - Version Control](#Git-and-Github---Version-Control)
1. [New - Laravel 7 - Front-End](#New---Laravel-7---Front-End)
1. [Laravel Data Seeding](#Laravel-Data-Seeding)
1. [New - Laravel Components](#New---Laravel-Components)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7](#New-Application---Laravel-7)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - Roles and Permissions - Migrations & Relationships](#New-Application---Laravel-7---Roles-and-Permissions---Migrations-&-Relationships)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - Admin Users](#New-Application---Laravel-7---Admin-Users)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - User Profile Roles](#New-Application---Laravel-7---User-Profile-Roles)
1. [New Application - Laravel 7 - Permissions & Roles - CRUD](#New-Application---Laravel-7---Permissions-&-Roles---CRUD)
1. [Application - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Posts - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Posts---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Categories - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Categories---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Media - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Media---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Application - Comments - Legacy Version 5.2](#Application---Comments---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Extra Features - Legacy Version 5.2](#Extra-Features---Legacy-Version-5.2)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.3](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.3)
1. [Extra Feature - WYSIWYG and File Management Installation](#Extra-Feature---WYSIWYG-and-File-Management-Installation)
1. [Extra Feature - Disqus Comment System](#Extra-Feature---Disqus-Comment-System)
1. [Extra Feature - Bulk Media Delete](#Extra-Feature---Bulk-Media-Delete)
1. [Extra Feature: Deploying Our App to a Shared Hosting Account](#Extra-Feature:-Deploying-Our-App-to-a-Shared-Hosting-Account)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.4](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.4)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.5](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.5)
1. [Extra - Adjustments And More Features](#Extra---Adjustments-And-More-Features)
1. [Upgrade to Laravel 5.6](#Upgrade-to-Laravel-5.6)
1. [Upgrade from 5.6 to 5.7 & 5.7 to 5.8](#Upgrade-from-5.6-to-5.7-&-5.7-to-5.8)
1. [Upgrade from 5.8 to 6.0](#Upgrade-from-5.8-to-6.0)

# Windows - Local Environment Setup
1. Several apps and programs are installed
    1. XAMPP
    1. Git
    1. VSCode or PHPStorm (form Adobe) as code editor
    1. Composer
    1. Node.js
1. When [installing Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/installation#installing-laravel), we can direct the working directory to the folder that we want to create the project and use `composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel:^7.0 blog`. We have to ensure php and composer have been installed on the machine. Note that we can use "**GitBash**" to create a Laravel project on Windows machine.
1. On the other hand, we may use `composer global require laravel/installer` to install Laravel globally on the machine, so we can simply use `laravel new [projectName]` to start a new Laravel project in any directory.
1. If composer can't download the dependencies correctly, we can use `composer config -g repo.packagist composer https://packagist.org` to change the repo and try to create the project again.

# MAC - Local Environment Setup
1. This part is skipped

# Laravel Fundamentals - Routes
# Laravel Fundamentals - Controllers
# Laravel Fundamentals - Views
# Laravel Fundamentals - Laravel Blade Templating Engine
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Laravel Migration
# Laravel Fundamentals - Raw SQL Queries
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent/ORM
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Eloquent Relationship
# Laravel Fundamentals - Database - Tinker
# Database - Eloquent One to One Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent One to Many Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent Many to Many Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Relationship CRUD
# Database - Eloquent Polymorphic Many to Many Relationship CRUD
# Forms and Validation
# Forms - Package and Validation
# Database - Some More Model Manipulation
# Forms - Uploading Files
# Forms - Login
# Middleware - Security/Protection
# Laravel Sessions
# Laravel - Sending Email/API
# Git and Github - Version Control
# New - Laravel 7 - Front-End
# Laravel Data Seeding
# New - Laravel Components
# New Application - Laravel 7
# New Application - Laravel 7 - Roles and Permissions - Migrations & Relationships
# New Application - Laravel 7 - Admin Users
# New Application - Laravel 7 - User Profile Roles
# New Application - Laravel 7 - Permissions & Roles - CRUD
# Application - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Posts - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Categories - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Media - Legacy Version 5.2
# Application - Comments - Legacy Version 5.2
# Extra Features - Legacy Version 5.2
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.3
# Extra Feature - WYSIWYG and File Management Installation
# Extra Feature - Disqus Comment System
# Extra Feature - Bulk Media Delete
# Extra Feature: Deploying Our App to a Shared Hosting Account
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.4
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.5
# Extra - Adjustments And More Features
# Upgrade to Laravel 5.6
# Upgrade from 5.6 to 5.7 & 5.7 to 5.8
# Upgrade from 5.8 to 6.0
