webDesign/completeWeb&MobileDesignerIn2021/README.md, before:

Start Course on 2020/10/26
Finish Course on 

# Course outline
1. Section 1: Getting started - Sketching, Inspiration, User Flows
    1. [Sketching](#sketching)
    1. [Inspiration](#inspiration)
    1. [User Flows](#User-Flows)
    1. [Sitemaps](#Sitemaps)

1. Section 2: Explore & Iterate - Wireframes, Prototyping, and Feedback
    1. [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    1. [Prototyping](#prototyping)
    1. [Feedback](#feedback)

1. Section 3: Visual Design - Design Theory + Accessibility
    1. [Spacing and the Grid](#Spacing-and-the-Grid)
    1. [Typography](#Typography)
    1. [Color](#Color)
    1. [Forms + UI Elements](#Forms-+-UI-Elements)
    1. [Visual Assets](#Visual-Assets)
    1. [Accessibility](#Accessibility)

1. Section 4: Design Exploration - Application Design + Design System
    1. [Design Patterns](#Design-Patterns)
    1. [Mobile Design](#Mobile-Design)
    1. [Visual Style + Exploration](#Visual-Style-+-Exploration)
    1. [Motion](#Motion)
    1. [Microinteractions](#Microinteractions)

1. Section 5: Putting it all Together - Design Systems and Final Composition
    1. [Design Systems](#Design-Systems)
    1. [Final Composition](#Final-Composition)
    1. [Working with a Client Revisited](#Working-with-a-Client-Revisited)
    1. [Where to Go From Here?](#Where-`to-Go-From-Here?)
    1. [Web Portfolio](#Web-Portfolio)
    1. [From Figma to Website: Building Our Landing Page](#From-Figma-to-Website:-Building-Our-Landing-Page)
    1. [Bonus: How the Internet Works](#Bonus:-How-the-Internet-Works)
    1. [Bonus: History of the Web](#Bonus:-History-of-the-Web)
    1. [Bonus: HTML5](#Bonus:-HTML5)
    1. [Bonus: CSS3](#Bonus:-CSS3)
    1. [Bonus: Boostrap, Templates, and Building Your Startup Landing Page](#Bonus:-Boostrap,-Templates,-and-Building-Your-Startup-Landing-Page)
    1. [Bonus: CSS Grid + CSS Layout](#Bonus:-CSS-Grid-+-CSS-Layout)






# Section 1: Getting started - Sketching, Inspiration, User Flows
## Sketching
### The Sketching Process
1. Be prepared
    1. Prepare tools beforehand, such as simple paper or pencil and tablet
    1. Define the goals
    1. Define who is the audience
    1. Time yourself by keeping a time limit and having little pressure
1. Start sketching
    1. Draw a frame for the device
    1. Start with more simple and redundant elements
    1. Move onto some more detailed interactions
    1. Annotate the sketches and keep the file and information safe
    1. Keep going
    1. Share the sketches
1. Refinement
    1. Add titles to the sketches
    1. Add annotations
    1. Use numbers or arrows to create the flow of using
        1. Page transition
        1. Interaction transition
    1. Add gestures if you want
    <img src="./images/touchGestures.png">

### Sketching User Flow
1. We can use paper and pencil or tablets to map out and visualize the user flow. 
1. The instructor introduced **_Concepts_** App which is available on iPad, Android, and Windows. However, by the time of learning, the cross platform synchronizing is not available yet. 
1. To start the user flow, we can follow the following steps.
    1. Understand what to be drawn with the scope of this work. This can be a large journey or a simple interaction.
    1. Define starting point. This could be the exact starting point, middle of the journey, or the end of the process by reverse the workflow. 
    1. Define the next step which is the action to go after the starting point of this work.
1. When we create the flow, it the flow wouldn't be one liner and straight forward. It may be presented as a flowchart which has many scenarios.

### Sketching User Flow 2
1. We start to reason for the interactions that users may take with the pages and components.

### Sketching User Flow 3
1. This part is about the structure and navigation of the product. For example, we can have a homepage or landing page for certain feature. 
1. The main topic here is the relationship between different sections (such as pages) and functions with extendable features. The flow of the product introduced here is an e-commerce site.
    1. Home page
    1. Cart (Saved items)
    1. Checkout

### Sketching User Flow 4
1. This part goes deeper to each component on the page layout and how would those items interact with the user for different purposes and guidance. 

### Sketching Tips
1. Be lean and agile but don't be afraid of messing up.
1. Keep the sketching files safe
1. Always be prepared
1. Communicate and share to team





## Inspiration
### How to Stay Inspired
1. Creativity should be contantly stimulated. <br> Everyone has and can train his/her creativity.
1. Talk to peers. <br> People may get inspired during chats and casual talks.
1. Study others. <br> We can understand the reasoning flow with the process of reasoning rather than simply duplicating the same job.
1. Surround with great design. <br> It can be good inspiration and reminder for designers. 
1. Stay educated on a variety of topics. <br> We don't need to be expert in different areas, but we can refer to different knowledge and mindset for creative solutions.
1. Design for yourself. <br> We can sometimes escape from the current tasks and projects and change to focus on something we have passion of. 
1. Travel and explore the world. <br> Push yourself off the comfort zone.
1. Just take a walk. <br> Walking can boost creativity according to research. When changing mode of body conditions, we can have more refreshments and "Ah Ha" moments. 

### How to Find Inspiration
1. [**_Dribbble_**](https://dribbble.com/) is a platform where designers share their arts and works.
1. [**_Pinterest_**](https://www.pinterest.com/) is similar to Dribbble, while it covers more areas and topics of design. 
1. [**_Behance_**](https://www.behance.net/) is more about graphic design. 
1. [**_pttrns_**](https://pttrns.com/) is more about the smaller items and components within designs, such as buttons.
1. [**_awwwards_**](https://www.awwwards.com/) provides many good designed website layouts.

## User Flows
### What Are User Flows?
1. A **_user flow_** is the steps that users take to acheive a meaningful goal.
1. The user flow starts from "what the user sees and what the user does" to "what the user sees next and what the user does next".
    <img src="./images/userFlow.png">
1. Process of doing userflow
    1. Define the purpose of userflow
    1. User flows should head in one direction
    1. Describe each of the steps

### Do's and Don'ts
1. These process and concepts would be repetitive and redundant in some way. However, it helps to make the flow clear and easy to understand.
1. User flow should be clear
    1. Don't make the user flow vague.
    1. The user flow description should be descriptive and meaningful. 
1. User flow should be one direction
    1. Don't create flow maps to represent a user flow.
    1. Create distinct flows for different purposes.
1. Keeping the details in user flow
    1. Don't miss the details.
    1. We should put the right amount of details

### Speed up Workflow with Components
1. In this section, we start to use **_Figma_** to create the art works and user flow. 
1. In this case, we start with registration process for a user on the app. 
1. We can use <kbd>Alt</kbd> and mouse left key on an object to duplicate it. 
1. When selecting an object, we can choose to create a component by the button on the top, or <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + k</kbd>. Therefore, when the mother object is modified all the components created from that will be modified at the same time. 
1. However, if we modified a child component, the one will not be synchronized when the mother componenet is modified. That is the mother component can only synchronize modification with components that are created from the object and identical to it.
1. We can rename multiple objects with <kbd>Ctrl + r</kbd> at the same time and use <kbd>Ctrl + g</kbd> to group them. 
1. After grouping the objects, we can use <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + k</kbd> to create other groups of components.

### Creating Our Own User Flows
1. We start to build the user flow in this part. 
1. Press <kbd>f</kbd> and drag to create a frame, which is the background/canvas and can be used to group components and smaller objects.
1. Besids "layout" tab, we can check all the components in the "assests" tab to look the local components that we create. 
1. Use detachment with <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + b</kbd>. This command will bundle all the objects we combine and create a new item. Besides, we can also save it as a component.
1. Use mouse right click on a component and select "Go to Main Componenet". It will redirect us to the mother component in the file. 
    <img src="./images/userflow1_onboarding.png">

### Creating Our Own User Flows 2
1. This part is to layout the user flow of searching a product. 
    <img src="./images/userflow2_searchingForProduct.png">
    
### Creating Our Own User Flows 3
1. This part is to layout the user flow of making a purchase. 
1. If we select multiple objects, we can use <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + Shift + h</kbd> to distribute the selected objects in the space evenly. We can also select it in the "Design" tab on the right panel.
    <img src="./images/userflow3_makingAPurchase.png">


## Sitemaps
### Introduction to Sitemap
1. Sitemaps are hierarchical diagrams that show how pages are organized.
1. We can start to build the sitemap right after the beginning of the project which can give us an overview of the whole work.

### Creating a Basic Sitemap
1. A sitemap object includes several components.
    1. Reference score - This is not neccessary, but could be useful when doing wireframe.
    1. Label - This is the name of the webpage.
        <img src="./images/basicSitemapitem.png">
1. The map can start from top to bottom or from left to right.
1. We can add legend to each page as tags or labels if it helps.
        <img src="./images/legendForSitemap.png">
1. There are mainly 2 types of sitemaps.
    1. Flat Sitemaps - this good for small to medium size product, such as from 10 to 100 pages. It's suggested that we don't go too deep for the tiers, as within 4-level, unless it's necessary.
        <img src="./images/flatSitemap.png">
    1. Deep Sitemaps - this is more suitable of large sites, as for hundreds of hundreds of pages, such as e-commerce or blogging sites.
        <img src="./images/deepSitemap.png">
1. Sitemaps can help strategically place content where users can find it. It results in the creation of your navigation and hierarchies of the product.

# Section 2: Explore & Iterate - Wireframes, Prototyping, and Feedback
## Wireframes
## Prototyping
## Feedback

# Section 3: Visual Design - Design Theory + Accessibility
## Spacing and the Grid
## Typography
## Color
## Forms + UI Elements
## Visual Assets
## Accessibility

# Section 4: Design Exploration - Application Design + Design System
## Design Patterns
## Mobile Design
## Visual Style + Exploration
## Motion
## Microinteractions

# Section 5: Putting it all Together - Design Systems and Final Composition
## Design Systems
## Final Composition
## Working with a Client Revisited
## Where to Go From Here?
## Web Portfolio
## From Figma to Website: Building Our Landing Page
## Bonus: How the Internet Works
## Bonus: History of the Web
## Bonus: HTML5
## Bonus: CSS3
## Bonus: Boostrap, Templates, and Building Your Startup Landing Page
## Bonus: CSS Grid + CSS Layout

Commit message:

update web design learning note. Finished learning 'Before you start'

webDesign/completeWeb&MobileDesignerIn2021/README.md, after:

Start Course on 2020/10/26
Finish Course on 

# Course outline
1. Section 1: Getting started - Sketching, Inspiration, User Flows
    1. [Sketching](#sketching)
    1. [Inspiration](#inspiration)
    1. [User Flows](#User-Flows)
    1. [Sitemaps](#Sitemaps)

1. Section 2: Explore & Iterate - Wireframes, Prototyping, and Feedback
    1. [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    1. [Prototyping](#prototyping)
    1. [Feedback](#feedback)

1. Section 3: Visual Design - Design Theory + Accessibility
    1. [Spacing and the Grid](#Spacing-and-the-Grid)
    1. [Typography](#Typography)
    1. [Color](#Color)
    1. [Forms + UI Elements](#Forms-+-UI-Elements)
    1. [Visual Assets](#Visual-Assets)
    1. [Accessibility](#Accessibility)

1. Section 4: Design Exploration - Application Design + Design System
    1. [Design Patterns](#Design-Patterns)
    1. [Mobile Design](#Mobile-Design)
    1. [Visual Style + Exploration](#Visual-Style-+-Exploration)
    1. [Motion](#Motion)
    1. [Microinteractions](#Microinteractions)

1. Section 5: Putting it all Together - Design Systems and Final Composition
    1. [Design Systems](#Design-Systems)
    1. [Final Composition](#Final-Composition)
    1. [Working with a Client Revisited](#Working-with-a-Client-Revisited)
    1. [Where to Go From Here?](#Where-`to-Go-From-Here?)
    1. [Web Portfolio](#Web-Portfolio)
    1. [From Figma to Website: Building Our Landing Page](#From-Figma-to-Website:-Building-Our-Landing-Page)
    1. [Bonus: How the Internet Works](#Bonus:-How-the-Internet-Works)
    1. [Bonus: History of the Web](#Bonus:-History-of-the-Web)
    1. [Bonus: HTML5](#Bonus:-HTML5)
    1. [Bonus: CSS3](#Bonus:-CSS3)
    1. [Bonus: Boostrap, Templates, and Building Your Startup Landing Page](#Bonus:-Boostrap,-Templates,-and-Building-Your-Startup-Landing-Page)
    1. [Bonus: CSS Grid + CSS Layout](#Bonus:-CSS-Grid-+-CSS-Layout)






# Section 1: Getting started - Sketching, Inspiration, User Flows
## Sketching
### The Sketching Process
1. Be prepared
    1. Prepare tools beforehand, such as simple paper or pencil and tablet
    1. Define the goals
    1. Define who is the audience
    1. Time yourself by keeping a time limit and having little pressure
1. Start sketching
    1. Draw a frame for the device
    1. Start with more simple and redundant elements
    1. Move onto some more detailed interactions
    1. Annotate the sketches and keep the file and information safe
    1. Keep going
    1. Share the sketches
1. Refinement
    1. Add titles to the sketches
    1. Add annotations
    1. Use numbers or arrows to create the flow of using
        1. Page transition
        1. Interaction transition
    1. Add gestures if you want
    <img src="./images/touchGestures.png">

### Sketching User Flow
1. We can use paper and pencil or tablets to map out and visualize the user flow. 
1. The instructor introduced **_Concepts_** App which is available on iPad, Android, and Windows. However, by the time of learning, the cross platform synchronizing is not available yet. 
1. To start the user flow, we can follow the following steps.
    1. Understand what to be drawn with the scope of this work. This can be a large journey or a simple interaction.
    1. Define starting point. This could be the exact starting point, middle of the journey, or the end of the process by reverse the workflow. 
    1. Define the next step which is the action to go after the starting point of this work.
1. When we create the flow, it the flow wouldn't be one liner and straight forward. It may be presented as a flowchart which has many scenarios.

### Sketching User Flow 2
1. We start to reason for the interactions that users may take with the pages and components.

### Sketching User Flow 3
1. This part is about the structure and navigation of the product. For example, we can have a homepage or landing page for certain feature. 
1. The main topic here is the relationship between different sections (such as pages) and functions with extendable features. The flow of the product introduced here is an e-commerce site.
    1. Home page
    1. Cart (Saved items)
    1. Checkout

### Sketching User Flow 4
1. This part goes deeper to each component on the page layout and how would those items interact with the user for different purposes and guidance. 

### Sketching Tips
1. Be lean and agile but don't be afraid of messing up.
1. Keep the sketching files safe
1. Always be prepared
1. Communicate and share to team





## Inspiration
### How to Stay Inspired
1. Creativity should be contantly stimulated. <br> Everyone has and can train his/her creativity.
1. Talk to peers. <br> People may get inspired during chats and casual talks.
1. Study others. <br> We can understand the reasoning flow with the process of reasoning rather than simply duplicating the same job.
1. Surround with great design. <br> It can be good inspiration and reminder for designers. 
1. Stay educated on a variety of topics. <br> We don't need to be expert in different areas, but we can refer to different knowledge and mindset for creative solutions.
1. Design for yourself. <br> We can sometimes escape from the current tasks and projects and change to focus on something we have passion of. 
1. Travel and explore the world. <br> Push yourself off the comfort zone.
1. Just take a walk. <br> Walking can boost creativity according to research. When changing mode of body conditions, we can have more refreshments and "Ah Ha" moments. 

### How to Find Inspiration
1. [**_Dribbble_**](https://dribbble.com/) is a platform where designers share their arts and works.
1. [**_Pinterest_**](https://www.pinterest.com/) is similar to Dribbble, while it covers more areas and topics of design. 
1. [**_Behance_**](https://www.behance.net/) is more about graphic design. 
1. [**_pttrns_**](https://pttrns.com/) is more about the smaller items and components within designs, such as buttons.
1. [**_awwwards_**](https://www.awwwards.com/) provides many good designed website layouts.

## User Flows
### What Are User Flows?
1. A **_user flow_** is the steps that users take to acheive a meaningful goal.
1. The user flow starts from "what the user sees and what the user does" to "what the user sees next and what the user does next".
    <img src="./images/userFlow.png">
1. Process of doing userflow
    1. Define the purpose of userflow
    1. User flows should head in one direction
    1. Describe each of the steps

### Do's and Don'ts
1. These process and concepts would be repetitive and redundant in some way. However, it helps to make the flow clear and easy to understand.
1. User flow should be clear
    1. Don't make the user flow vague.
    1. The user flow description should be descriptive and meaningful. 
1. User flow should be one direction
    1. Don't create flow maps to represent a user flow.
    1. Create distinct flows for different purposes.
1. Keeping the details in user flow
    1. Don't miss the details.
    1. We should put the right amount of details

### Speed up Workflow with Components
1. In this section, we start to use **_Figma_** to create the art works and user flow. 
1. In this case, we start with registration process for a user on the app. 
1. We can use <kbd>Alt</kbd> and mouse left key on an object to duplicate it. 
1. When selecting an object, we can choose to create a component by the button on the top, or <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + k</kbd>. Therefore, when the mother object is modified all the components created from that will be modified at the same time. 
1. However, if we modified a child component, the one will not be synchronized when the mother componenet is modified. That is the mother component can only synchronize modification with components that are created from the object and identical to it.
1. We can rename multiple objects with <kbd>Ctrl + r</kbd> at the same time and use <kbd>Ctrl + g</kbd> to group them. 
1. After grouping the objects, we can use <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + k</kbd> to create other groups of components.

### Creating Our Own User Flows
1. We start to build the user flow in this part. 
1. Press <kbd>f</kbd> and drag to create a frame, which is the background/canvas and can be used to group components and smaller objects.
1. Besids "layout" tab, we can check all the components in the "assests" tab to look the local components that we create. 
1. Use detachment with <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + b</kbd>. This command will bundle all the objects we combine and create a new item. Besides, we can also save it as a component.
1. Use mouse right click on a component and select "Go to Main Componenet". It will redirect us to the mother component in the file. 
    <img src="./images/userflow1_onboarding.png">

### Creating Our Own User Flows 2
1. This part is to layout the user flow of searching a product. 
    <img src="./images/userflow2_searchingForProduct.png">
    
### Creating Our Own User Flows 3
1. This part is to layout the user flow of making a purchase. 
1. If we select multiple objects, we can use <kbd>Ctrl + Alt + Shift + h</kbd> to distribute the selected objects in the space evenly. We can also select it in the "Design" tab on the right panel.
    <img src="./images/userflow3_makingAPurchase.png">


## Sitemaps
### Introduction to Sitemap
1. Sitemaps are hierarchical diagrams that show how pages are organized.
1. We can start to build the sitemap right after the beginning of the project which can give us an overview of the whole work.

### Creating a Basic Sitemap
1. A sitemap object includes several components.
    1. Reference score - This is not neccessary, but could be useful when doing wireframe.
    1. Label - This is the name of the webpage.
        <img src="./images/basicSitemapitem.png">
1. The map can start from top to bottom or from left to right.
1. We can add legend to each page as tags or labels if it helps.
        <img src="./images/legendForSitemap.png">
1. There are mainly 2 types of sitemaps.
    1. Flat Sitemaps - this good for small to medium size product, such as from 10 to 100 pages. It's suggested that we don't go too deep for the tiers, as within 4-level, unless it's necessary.
        <img src="./images/flatSitemap.png">
    1. Deep Sitemaps - this is more suitable of large sites, as for hundreds of hundreds of pages, such as e-commerce or blogging sites.
        <img src="./images/deepSitemap.png">
1. Sitemaps can help strategically place content where users can find it. It results in the creation of your navigation and hierarchies of the product.

### Before you start
1. This part is to refer back to the sketches that we have made when reasoning the user flow. 
1. We can get most of the resources and recommended plugins from [here](https://github.com/allenlin90/programmingLearning/blob/master/webDesign/completeWeb%26MobileDesignerIn2021/zerotomastery.io%2B-%2BDesign%2BResources.pdf).
1. There are some plugins can be very useful when doing design. 
    1. Unsplash - One of the most well known open source image collection.
    1. Logo Creator - Providing samples and collection from other companies for materials and inspiration.
    1. Autoflow - Auto setting arrows by using <kbd>Shift</kbd> to select multiple objects and create arrows.
    1. Wireframe - Providing templates for common use routes and functions, such as login page.

# Section 2: Explore & Iterate - Wireframes, Prototyping, and Feedback
## Wireframes
## Prototyping
## Feedback

# Section 3: Visual Design - Design Theory + Accessibility
## Spacing and the Grid
## Typography
## Color
## Forms + UI Elements
## Visual Assets
## Accessibility

# Section 4: Design Exploration - Application Design + Design System
## Design Patterns
## Mobile Design
## Visual Style + Exploration
## Motion
## Microinteractions

# Section 5: Putting it all Together - Design Systems and Final Composition
## Design Systems
## Final Composition
## Working with a Client Revisited
## Where to Go From Here?
## Web Portfolio
## From Figma to Website: Building Our Landing Page
## Bonus: How the Internet Works
## Bonus: History of the Web
## Bonus: HTML5
## Bonus: CSS3
## Bonus: Boostrap, Templates, and Building Your Startup Landing Page
## Bonus: CSS Grid + CSS Layout
